New workflow client update (#2920)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/common-workflows/pages/workflow-client-update.adoc

[[workflow-client-update]]

= Update Clients

> This workflow show how to automate update clients registered at {productname} using recurring actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This workflow shows how to automate update clients registered at {productname} using recurring actions.
```

> This workflow shows how to automate update clients registered at {productname} using recurring actions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This workflow shows how to automate updating the clients registered at {productname} using recurring actions.
```

> 
> The workflow is applicable for Salt clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// FIXME uncomment on 4.3 backport
// The workflow is applicable for Salt clients.
```

> The workflow is applicable for Salt clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workflow is applicable for {salt} clients.
```

> == Use case / Situation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Use Case / Situation
```

Automated update of clients is benefitial when:

- update of a large number of clients is wanted
- the workflow should not be re-done every execution

> - a fix maintenance window exists

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a dedicated maintenance window exists
```

== Outcome / Resolution

> Successful completion of this workflow results in consistent, supportable outcomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successful completion of this workflow results in consistent and supportable state.
```

== Preparation

> Before you start, you should have a number of salt clients onboarded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// FIXME 4.3 backport wersion
// Before you start, you should have a number of {salt} clients onboarded.
Before you start, you should have a number of clients onboarded.
```

> Before you start, you should have a number of salt clients onboarded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you start, you should have a number of {salt} clients onboarded.
```

It may make sense to have them sorted into groups you want to update together.

> In this workflow we use a system group named "infra-services".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this workflow we use a system group named [literal]``infra-services``.
```

> == Step-by-step workflow instructions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Step-by-step Workflow Instructions
```

> To update a salt client 2 steps are required. A third step is optional but is highly recommended to finalize the update process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update a client two steps are required.
A third step is optional but it is highly recommended to finalize the update process.
```

> Procedure 1: Create a recurring action to update salt itself:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Procedure 1: Create a recurring action to update {salt} itself
```

[role=procedure]
. As an example we create the action to update salt itself as a recurring action for all systems in the organization.
In the {productname} Web UI go to Home > My Organization > Recurring Actions and click `Create`.
. Select `Action Type` "Custom State" and enter a `Schedule Name` like "update-salt"

> . Select a Schedule. E.g. `Weekly`: Wednesday, 9:00 am

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select a schedule.
  For example, `Weekly`: Wednesday, 9:00 am.
```

> . Assign the `update-salt` state by selecting the checkbox
> . Save the action by clicking on `Save Changes`
> . You can edit the execution order of the states if needed. Click on `Confirm` to agree on the order.
> . To save the action, click on `Create Schedule`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Assign the `update-salt` state by selecting the checkbox.
. Save the action by clicking btn:[Save Changes].
. You can edit the execution order of the states if needed.
  Click btn:[Confirm] to confirm the order.
. Click btn:[Create Schedule] to save the action.
```

> Procedure 2: Create a recurring action to apply all available updates to the systems:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Procedure 2: Creating a recurring action to apply all available updates to the systems
```

[role=procedure]

> . As an example we create the action to apply all updates as a recurring action for a system group called "infra-services".
> In the {productname} Web UI go to Systems > System Groups and click on "infra-services".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. As an example, create an action to apply all updates as a recurring action for a system group called "infra-services".
  In the {productname} Web UI go to Systems > System Groups and click btn:[infra-services].
```

[[workflow-client-update]]

= Update Clients

This workflow shows how to automate update clients registered at {productname} using recurring actions.

The workflow is applicable for Salt clients.

== Use case / Situation

Automated update of clients is benefitial when:

- update of a large number of clients is wanted
- the workflow should not be re-done every execution
- a dedicated maintenance window exists

== Outcome / Resolution

Successful completion of this workflow results in consistent and supportable state.

== Preparation

Before you start, you should have a number of salt clients onboarded.
It may make sense to have them sorted into groups you want to update together.
In this workflow we use a system group named "infra-services".

== Step-by-step workflow instructions

To update a client two steps are required.
A third step is optional but it is highly recommended to finalize the update process.

.Procedure 1: Creating a recurring action to update {salt} itself
[role=procedure]

> . As an example we create the action to update salt itself as a recurring action for all systems in the organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. As an example we create the action to update {salt} itself as a recurring action for all systems in the organization.
```

> In the {productname} Web UI go to Home > My Organization > Recurring Actions and click `Create`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the {productname} {webui} go to menu:Home[My Organization > Recurring Actions] and click btn:[Create].
```

. Select `Action Type` "Custom State" and enter a `Schedule Name` like "full-system-update"
. Select a Schedule. E.g. `Weekly`: Wednesday, 9:30 am .
Keep enough time between this action and the "update-salt" action.
The "update-salt" actions must be finished on all systems before this action should be executed.
. Assign the states `util.syncall`, `certs`, `channels` and `uptodate` by selecting the checkboxes.
. Save the action by clicking on `Save Changes`
. You can edit the execution order of the states. The order should be `util.syncall`, `certs`, `channels` and finally `uptodate`.
Click on `Confirm` to store the order.
. To save the action, click on `Create Schedule`.

The `uptodate` state perform also a reboot, if an update request this. This can be prevented if wanted. For example at systems which use live patching.

Procedure 3: Configure systems to not reboot when apply the `uptodate` state:
[role=procedure]
. In the {productname} Web UI go to Systems > Custom System Info and click `Create Key`.
. Enter "mgr_reboot_if_needed" as `Key Label` and set as `Description` 
'Define if the up2date state should perform a reboot if needed. Set to "false" if this is not wanted'

> . Click on `Create Key` to store the new key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click on btn:[Create Key] to store the new key.
```

. To assign values to multiple systems, go in the {productname} Web UI to Systems > Overview and select the checkbox for all systems you want to modify.
These system are not in the System Set Manager (SSM)

> . Select in the left menu System Set Manager and select `Misc > Custom Values` in the tab bar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select in the left menu System Set Manager and select menu:Misc[Custom Values] in the tab bar.
```

> . Click on `mgr_reboot_if_needed` and enter "false" as `Value`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click on [literal]``mgr_reboot_if_needed`` and enter **False** as [literal]``Value``.
```

> . Click on `Set Values` to save.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[`Set Values] to save.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> Procedure 4: Create a recurring action to run a highstate after the update:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Procedure 4: Creating a Recurring Action to Run a Highstate After the Update
```

> . As an example we create the action to apply the highstate for the same group which was fully updated before.
> In the {productname} Web UI go to Systems > System Groups and click on "infra-services".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. As an example we create the action to apply the highstate for the same group which was fully updated before.
  In the {productname} {webui} go to menu:Systems[System Groups] and click on [literal]``infra-services``.
```

. Now go to `Recurring Actions` and click on `Create`.
. Select `Action Type` "Highstate" and enter a `Schedule Name` like "highstate"

> . Select a Schedule. E.g. `Weekly`: Wednesday, 10:30 am.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Select a Schedule. E.g. `Weekly`: Wednesday, 10:30 am.
For example, ** Weekly: Wednesday, 10:30 am **.
```

> Again keep enough time between this action and the "full-system-update" action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Again, keep enough time between this action and the [literal]``full-system-update`` action.
```

> Again keep enough time between this action and the "full-system-update" action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Again, keep enough time between this action and the [literal]``full-system-update`` action.
```

> . To save the action, click on `Create Schedule`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Click btn:[Create Schedule] to save the action..
```
